PhysicsSim is a customisable simulation of gravitational interactions between 'planets' depicted on a 2D plane. The simulation is controlled via a series of shortcut keys (these are remappable with a config file) and the cursor. It uses object-oriented programming techniques to remain efficient, despite having O(n^2) complexity. It runs at a fixed time step (60 Hz) and doesn't slow down even with a large number of planets on a modern processor. The simulation itself was constructed with care to improve efficiency and readability of the code, but no optimisation is done on the gravitational calculation, although this is possible.

### Controls
| Action | Key (default) | Description                     |
|--------|---------------|---------------------------------|
| Pause  | NumPad0       | Pause the simulation            |
| New    | NumPad1       | Advance planet creation         |
| Grid   | NumPad2       | Toggle between three grid modes |
| Clear  | NumPad3       | Clear existing planets          |
| Debug  | NumPad4       | Toggle debug view               |

The following is a the list of customisable keyboard shortcuts used to control the simulation. `config.xml` contains these default key bindings in a format understood by the simulator. Any shortcut key can be remapped by replacing the `key` attribute with a valid keycode. An extensive list can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.windows.forms.keys?view=netframework-4.7.2#fields); a single capital letter denotes the corresponding letter on the keyboard, D* denotes a digit in the top row (where * is replaced by the intended digit) and NumPad* denotes a digit on the number pad (where * is replaced by the intended digit).

### Intended use
The simulation is intended to be used as a demonstration of gravitational interactions between bodies and not as a general-purpose physics simulation. For this reason there is only basic collision detection, which aims to maintain the course of the colliding planets by ignoring the gravitational force between any two planets which intersect one another. this feature only exists so that the simulation is not ruined by the centres of two planets approaching each other in such a way as to produce a huge force on both planets, sending them out of view. This workaround allows two planets to briefly touch without interrupting the either of their orbits.

### Role of object-oriented programming (OOP)
A major component of the design of the simulator is OOP. The fact that the simulation concerns an arbitrary number of discrete objects ('planets') makes it easy to conceptualise each planet as an instance of the planet class, with its own properties such as mass, size, location and velocity. Furthermore, each object must be able to update its location and velocity on every rendered frame, so it was intuitive to introduce a method of that class to handle updating these fields for a given planet. The principles of OOP allow each instance of this class to access data of all other instances, so that any given planet can calculate the force from all the other individual planets. OOP is also used elsewhere in the simulation, for example to differentiate between the two available modes: the idle mode and a mode for planet creation. Each one is a class, inherited by the XXX_REPLACE interface, which allows the swapping out of these classes inside a "current mode" variable. Both have an Update() method (as per the interface they inherit), allowing only certain actions to be performed in each mode, without a lengthy if else statement to determine the current mode, which would have to be run every frame.
